<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><!--This file was converted to xhtml by OpenOffice.org - see http://xml.openoffice.org/odf2xhtml for more info.--><head profile="http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/"><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/><title xml:lang="en-US">Mazer5D Version History</title><meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Mazer5D Version History" xml:lang="en-US"/><meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en-US" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/><meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="http://xml.openoffice.org/odf2xhtml"/><meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="esahnell"/><meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="2010-01-29T10:09:00" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/><meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="2012-04-05T18:54:44" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/><meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content="" xml:lang="en-US"/><meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="," xml:lang="en-US"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/><link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/><link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/><link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/><style type="text/css">
	@page {  }
	table { border-collapse:collapse; border-spacing:0; empty-cells:show }
	td, th { vertical-align:top; font-size:12pt;}
	h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6 { clear:both }
	ol, ul { margin:0; padding:0;}
	li { list-style: none; margin:0; padding:0;}
	<!-- "li span.odfLiEnd" - IE 7 issue-->
	li span. { clear: both; line-height:0; width:0; height:0; margin:0; padding:0; }
	span.footnodeNumber { padding-right:1em; }
	span.annotation_style_by_filter { font-size:95%; font-family:Arial; background-color:#fff000;  margin:0; border:0; padding:0;  }
	* { margin:0;}
	.P1 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; font-weight:bold; }
	.P10 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:none ! important; font-weight:normal; }
	.P2 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:underline; }
	.P3 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:underline; font-weight:normal; }
	.P4 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:underline; font-weight:bold; }
	.P5 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:none ! important; font-weight:normal; }
	.P6 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:none ! important; font-weight:normal; }
	.P7 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:none ! important; font-weight:normal; }
	.P8 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:none ! important; font-weight:normal; }
	.P9 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:none ! important; font-weight:normal; }
	.Bullet_20_Symbols { font-family:OpenSymbol; }
	<!-- ODF styles with no properties representable as CSS -->
	{ }
	</style></head><body dir="ltr" style="max-width:8.5in;margin:1in; margin-top:1in; margin-bottom:1in; margin-left:1in; margin-right:1in; border-style:none; padding:0in; writing-mode:lr-tb; "><p class="P4">DungeonDiver3 Alpha Version History</p><p class="P1"> </p><p class="P1">V1.0.0-alpha4 (04/06/2012):</p><p class="P3">New Features:</p><ul><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Added a new menu item to the Help menu: What's New in DungeonDiver3. Invoking this displays the game's version history.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Added a new preference to the Misc. tab: Are Character Changes Permanent; the default is no. If this is enabled, character status changes are written back to the corresponding character files.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P3">Bug Fixes:</p><ul><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed a bug that caused members of your party to not display before their first move in battles after the first.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed a bug that caused the game to fail to realize that a battle is in progress.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed two bugs with the Prestige Viewer:<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p><ul><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">◦</span>Clicking the View Prestige... command in the Game menu previously did nothing. Now it shows the Prestige dialog like it is supposed to.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">◦</span>The colors for the various elements of prestige (which couldn't be seen due to the first bug) were wrong. The colors have now been corrected.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed a color bug with the panels in the various stat displays.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P3">Other Changes:</p><ul><li><p class="P7" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Improved integration with the operating system.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P7" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Halved the number of action points consumed by stealing and draining in battle.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P1"> </p><p class="P1">V1.0.0-alpha3 (04/04/2012):</p><p class="P2">Bug Fixes:</p><ul><li><p class="P8" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed a freezing bug that occurred intermittently while the game was playing sounds.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P3">Other Changes:</p><ul><li><p class="P9" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Increased the average number of battles required to gain a level, in turn increasing the amount of gold earned before leveling up.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P9" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Doubled the maximum amount of gold possible to earn per battle.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P9" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Reduced the maximum level attainable from 250 to 99.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P9" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Changed the formula for computing the price of enhancements to weapons and armor – it now increases with the power of the equipment being enhanced.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P9" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Changed the formula for the base price of weapons and armor to make gear a LOT cheaper as level increases, as an incentive to purchase it.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P9" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Changed the formula for the number of battles required to gain a level to be more reasonable as level increases.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p><ul><li><p class="P9" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">◦</span>As a comparison example, to get from level 98 to 99 under the old system would have required over 1,000,000,000,000 (1 quadrillion) battles.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P9" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">◦</span>The new, more reasonable formula requires 200 battles to get from level 98 to level 99.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul></li></ul><p class="P1"> </p><p class="P1">V1.0.0-alpha2 (04/02/2012):</p><p class="P2">Bug Fixes:</p><ul><li><p class="P8" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed menu bugs:<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p><ul><li><p class="P8" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">◦</span>It is no longer possible to save your game while in the middle of battle.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P8" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">◦</span>The game no longer prompts you to save if you are in the middle of battle and quit the game.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P8" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">◦</span>Registering and unregistering characters can only be done while NOT playing a game, now.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul></li><li><p class="P8" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed faith data bug causing all effects that do damage to not work.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P8" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed poisoning to work more reliably and consistently.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P8" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed several issues with the updater.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P3">Other Changes:</p><ul><li><p class="P10" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Changed the scoring system slightly:<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p><ul><li><p class="P10" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">◦</span>Score tables are no longer saved or used, since only the first entry is ever populated.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P10" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">◦</span>You are no longer prompted for a name for the score table; instead, your final score is shown in a dialog.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P10" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">◦</span>The View Score Table... command in the Game menu was removed.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul></li></ul><p class="P1"> </p><p class="P1">V1.0.0-alpha1 (04/01/2012):</p><p class="P2">New Features:</p><ul><li><p class="P8" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Initial alpha release.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul></body></html>
