<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><!--This file was converted to xhtml by OpenOffice.org - see http://xml.openoffice.org/odf2xhtml for more info.--><head profile="http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/"><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/><title xml:lang="en-US">Mazer5D Version History</title><meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Mazer5D Version History" xml:lang="en-US"/><meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en-US" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/><meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="http://xml.openoffice.org/odf2xhtml"/><meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="esahnell"/><meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="2010-01-29T10:09:00" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/><meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="2012-04-13T18:03:47" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/><meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content="" xml:lang="en-US"/><meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="," xml:lang="en-US"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/><link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/><link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/><link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/><style type="text/css">
	@page {  }
	table { border-collapse:collapse; border-spacing:0; empty-cells:show }
	td, th { vertical-align:top; font-size:12pt;}
	h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6 { clear:both }
	ol, ul { margin:0; padding:0;}
	li { list-style: none; margin:0; padding:0;}
	<!-- "li span.odfLiEnd" - IE 7 issue-->
	li span. { clear: both; line-height:0; width:0; height:0; margin:0; padding:0; }
	span.footnodeNumber { padding-right:1em; }
	span.annotation_style_by_filter { font-size:95%; font-family:Arial; background-color:#fff000;  margin:0; border:0; padding:0;  }
	* { margin:0;}
	.P1 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:underline; }
	.P2 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; font-weight:bold; }
	.P3 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; font-style:normal; text-decoration:underline; font-weight:normal; }
	.P4 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:underline; font-weight:bold; }
	.P5 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:none ! important; font-weight:normal; }
	.P6 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:none ! important; font-weight:normal; }
	.P7 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; font-style:normal; text-decoration:none ! important; font-weight:normal; }
	.Bullet_20_Symbols { font-family:OpenSymbol; }
	.T1 { font-style:italic; font-weight:normal; }
	.T2 { font-style:normal; }
	<!-- ODF styles with no properties representable as CSS -->
	{ }
	</style></head><body dir="ltr" style="max-width:8.5in;margin:1in; margin-top:1in; margin-bottom:1in; margin-left:1in; margin-right:1in; border-style:none; padding:0in; writing-mode:lr-tb; "><p class="P4">DungeonDiver3 Beta Version History</p><p class="P2"> </p><p class="P2">V1.0.0-beta3 (04/13/2012)<span class="T2">:</span></p><p class="P1">Bug Fixes:</p><ul><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Removed an unused constant. (Found with UCDetector)<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Reduced visibility of a bunch of constants, methods and classes to improve security. (Found with UCDetector)<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed multiple bugs related to the various modes the application can be in.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Removed an unneeded method, because its implementation had been made identical to that of a similar method that could replace it, due to the above refactoring.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Reduced the quality of the music in order to save space.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed various bugs in the libraries DungeonDiver3 depends on. (Found with FindBugs)<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed multiple bugs with Enhancement Shops.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed a bug with equipment power being displayed as 10 times smaller than it should be.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P2"> </p><p class="P2">V1.0.0-beta2 (04/10/2012)<span class="T2">:</span></p><p class="P3">New Features:</p><ul><li><p class="P7" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Added a new command to the Game menu: Remove Character. This unregisters the character selected, then deletes its file from the disk. Use with caution!<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P1">Bug Fixes:</p><ul><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Don't terminate the monster AI script early just because someone ended their turn in battle. This fix finally puts an end to issues that allowed you to control the monsters at times.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Don't terminate the monster AI script early just because a non-monster creature is active in battle. This fix completes the strange monster AI script behavior fixes in V1.0.0-beta1 for the cases involving more than 4 battlers.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Don't run new round actions for monsters that are dead or have fled the battle.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Really fixed the battle bug that caused the game to think the enemies had fled, when in fact you had won because at least one enemy ran away and all others were killed – it turns out that the earlier fix for this issue didn't work quite right.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed a bug that caused battle not to end immediately if a spell you cast on a monster killed that monster, and that monster was the last one still alive.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed a bug that caused Spell Shops to always offer Annihilator spells, regardless of what caste you chose when you created your character.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p><ul><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">◦</span>This fix only affects newly created characters.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">◦</span>Old characters that are affected will need to be deleted (using the newly added Remove Character command in the Game menu) and recreated before they will be offered the correct set of spells for their caste.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul></li></ul><p class="P2"> </p><p class="P2">V1.0.0-beta1 (04/08/2012) <span class="T1">(changes from V1.0.0-alpha4)</span><span class="T2">:</span></p><p class="P1">Bug Fixes:</p><ul><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed several instances where resources were requested and then used, but never cleaned up properly afterwards.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Removed unused code.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed a display bug in the updater that caused the program to sometimes give erroneous update information.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed an argument checking bug in one of the libraries DungeonDiver3 depends upon.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed some comparison, performance, and correctness bugs (found with FindBugs).<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed a character registration bug that was showing the extension of character files in the registration dialog.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed a preferences bug causing the Make Character Changes Permanent setting to have the wrong default value.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed a bug in the Edit Note dialog that caused the game to create a note if Cancel was chosen, when a note did not already exist.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Removed references to fumbling from the manual, since fumbling is not a thing in DungeonDiver3.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed a battle bug that caused effects to keep acting even if the creature they were acting on was no longer living.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed another battle bug that caused the AI to think it was done prematurely – this allowed you to control the monsters if one of them was last to act.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed a third battle bug that caused the game to think the enemies had fled, when in fact you had won because at least one enemy ran away and all others were killed.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed a fourth battle bug that caused the AI to behave strangely, thinking it was its turn again, immediately after performing an action, when more than 2 creatures were involved in a battle.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed a monster AI bug causing monsters to never cast the same spell twice in the same battle.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Made the monster AI smarter about going around objects if it gets stuck.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul></body></html>
