<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><!--This file was converted to xhtml by OpenOffice.org - see http://xml.openoffice.org/odf2xhtml for more info.--><head profile="http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/"><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/><title xml:lang="en-US">Mazer5D Version History</title><meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Mazer5D Version History" xml:lang="en-US"/><meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en-US" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/><meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="http://xml.openoffice.org/odf2xhtml"/><meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="esahnell"/><meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="2010-01-29T10:09:00" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/><meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="2012-03-31T19:26:11" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/><meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content="" xml:lang="en-US"/><meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="," xml:lang="en-US"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/><link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/><link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/><link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/><style type="text/css">
	@page {  }
	table { border-collapse:collapse; border-spacing:0; empty-cells:show }
	td, th { vertical-align:top; font-size:12pt;}
	h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6 { clear:both }
	ol, ul { margin:0; padding:0;}
	li { list-style: none; margin:0; padding:0;}
	<!-- "li span.odfLiEnd" - IE 7 issue-->
	li span. { clear: both; line-height:0; width:0; height:0; margin:0; padding:0; }
	span.footnodeNumber { padding-right:1em; }
	span.annotation_style_by_filter { font-size:95%; font-family:Arial; background-color:#fff000;  margin:0; border:0; padding:0;  }
	* { margin:0;}
	.P1 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; }
	.P2 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:underline; }
	.P3 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:underline; font-weight:bold; }
	.P4 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; font-weight:bold; }
	.P5 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; font-style:italic; text-decoration:none ! important; font-weight:normal; }
	.P6 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:underline; font-weight:bold; }
	.P7 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; }
	.Bullet_20_Symbols { font-family:OpenSymbol; }
	<!-- ODF styles with no properties representable as CSS -->
	{ }
	</style></head><body dir="ltr" style="max-width:8.5in;margin:1in; margin-top:1in; margin-bottom:1in; margin-left:1in; margin-right:1in; border-style:none; padding:0in; writing-mode:lr-tb; "><p class="P6">DungeonDiver3 Development Version History</p><p class="P3"> </p><p class="P5">Note: The dates below refer to code commit dates, not release dates. The versions listed here were never released to the public.</p><p class="P1"> </p><p class="P4">V1.0.0-dev7 (03/31/2012):</p><p class="P2">Bug Fixes:</p><ul><li><p class="P7" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed various bugs discovered in the sixth and last development testing round.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P2">Other Changes:</p><ul><li><p class="P7" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Prepared for first public release.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P1"> </p><p class="P4">V1.0.0-dev6 (03/30/2012):</p><p class="P2">New Features:</p><ul><li><p class="P7" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Third and final phase of features implemented.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P2">Bug Fixes:</p><ul><li><p class="P7" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed various bugs discovered in the third, fourth, and fifth testing rounds.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P1"> </p><p class="P4">V1.0.0-dev5 (03/29/2012):</p><p class="P2">New Features:</p><ul><li><p class="P7" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Second phase of features implemented.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P2">Bug Fixes:</p><ul><li><p class="P7" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed various bugs discovered in the second testing round.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P1"> </p><p class="P4">V1.0.0-dev4 (03/28/2012):</p><p class="P2">Bug Fixes:</p><ul><li><p class="P7" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed various bugs discovered in the initial testing round.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P1"> </p><p class="P4">V1.0.0-dev3 (03/27/2012):</p><p class="P2">New Features:</p><ul><li><p class="P7" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Started feature implementation.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P1"> </p><p class="P4">V1.0.0-dev2 (03/26/2012):</p><p class="P2">New Features:</p><ul><li><p class="P7" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Rebranded inherited code for DungeonDiver3.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P1"> </p><p class="P4">V1.0.0-dev1 (03/25/2012):</p><p class="P2">New Features:</p><ul><li><p class="P7" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Project started.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul></body></html>
