<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><!--This file was converted to xhtml by OpenOffice.org - see http://xml.openoffice.org/odf2xhtml for more info.--><head profile="http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/"><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="application/xhtml+xml; charset=utf-8"/><title xml:lang="en-US">Mazer5D Version History</title><meta name="DCTERMS.title" content="Mazer5D Version History" xml:lang="en-US"/><meta name="DCTERMS.language" content="en-US" scheme="DCTERMS.RFC4646"/><meta name="DCTERMS.source" content="http://xml.openoffice.org/odf2xhtml"/><meta name="DCTERMS.creator" content="esahnell"/><meta name="DCTERMS.issued" content="2010-01-29T10:09:00" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/><meta name="DCTERMS.modified" content="2012-05-04T19:02:21" scheme="DCTERMS.W3CDTF"/><meta name="DCTERMS.provenance" content="" xml:lang="en-US"/><meta name="DCTERMS.subject" content="," xml:lang="en-US"/><link rel="schema.DC" href="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/" hreflang="en"/><link rel="schema.DCTERMS" href="http://purl.org/dc/terms/" hreflang="en"/><link rel="schema.DCTYPE" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/" hreflang="en"/><link rel="schema.DCAM" href="http://purl.org/dc/dcam/" hreflang="en"/><style type="text/css">
	@page {  }
	table { border-collapse:collapse; border-spacing:0; empty-cells:show }
	td, th { vertical-align:top; font-size:12pt;}
	h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6 { clear:both }
	ol, ul { margin:0; padding:0;}
	li { list-style: none; margin:0; padding:0;}
	<!-- "li span.odfLiEnd" - IE 7 issue-->
	li span. { clear: both; line-height:0; width:0; height:0; margin:0; padding:0; }
	span.footnodeNumber { padding-right:1em; }
	span.annotation_style_by_filter { font-size:95%; font-family:Arial; background-color:#fff000;  margin:0; border:0; padding:0;  }
	* { margin:0;}
	.P1 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; font-weight:bold; }
	.P10 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:none ! important; font-weight:normal; }
	.P2 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:underline; font-weight:normal; }
	.P3 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:underline; font-weight:bold; }
	.P4 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:none ! important; font-weight:normal; }
	.P5 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:none ! important; font-weight:normal; }
	.P6 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:none ! important; font-weight:normal; }
	.P7 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:none ! important; font-weight:normal; }
	.P8 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:none ! important; font-weight:normal; }
	.P9 { font-size:12pt; margin:100%; margin-bottom:0in; margin-left:0in; margin-right:0in; margin-top:0in; text-align:left ! important; text-indent:0in; font-family:Helvetica; vertical-align:top; writing-mode:page; text-decoration:none ! important; font-weight:normal; }
	.Bullet_20_Symbols { font-family:OpenSymbol; }
	.T1 { font-style:italic; font-weight:normal; }
	<!-- ODF styles with no properties representable as CSS -->
	{ }
	</style></head><body dir="ltr" style="max-width:8.5in;margin:1in; margin-top:1in; margin-bottom:1in; margin-left:1in; margin-right:1in; border-style:none; padding:0in; writing-mode:lr-tb; "><p class="P3">DungeonDiver3 Version History</p><p class="P1"> </p><p class="P1">V2.0.0 (05/04/2012):</p><p class="P2">New Features:</p><ul><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Added the ability to rename Faiths to the Name Editor.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Added Faith Powers to the game:<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p><ul><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">◦</span>Added a new shop, the Faith Power Shop, that sells these.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">◦</span>Faith Powers for weapons give a damage boost.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">◦</span>Faith Powers for armor give damage reduction.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">◦</span>Faith Powers, like Faiths, can be renamed in the Name Editor.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul></li><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Added the ability to fire arrows in battle:<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p><ul><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">◦</span>Arrows never miss.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">◦</span>Arrows are MUCH weaker than melee weapons.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">◦</span>Arrows obey faith rules when determining damage.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul></li><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>The battle engine now respects the “One Move at a Time” preference.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P2">Other Changes:</p><ul><li><p class="P10" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Updated the saved game format version to 2. Older saved games still work.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P10" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Updated the names file version to 2. Old names files will be automatically deleted.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P10" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Made a tweak to the sound engine to hopefully further limit the random crashing.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P1"> </p><p class="P1">V1.3.1 (05/01/2012):</p><p class="P2">Bug Fixes:</p><ul><li><p class="P4" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Dangerous ground now only does bad things if the battlefield randomization is turned on, as it was supposed to behave all along.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P1"> </p><p class="P1">V1.3.0 (04/30/2012):</p><p class="P2">New Features:</p><ul><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Added the ability to edit the names of things in the game. Changes made take effect immediately.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Added an in-depth Statistics viewer.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P2">Other Changes:</p><ul><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Raised the floor for hit rate from 50% to 80%, and lowered the ceiling for evade rate from 50% to 20%, making battles a lot less frustrating due to missing an awful lot.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Renamed the Show Item Inventory... menu command to Show Inventory...<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P6" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Cleaned up the code a bit.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P1"> </p><p class="P1">V1.2.0 (04/25/2012):</p><p class="P2">New Features:</p><ul><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Upgraded the drawing engine. No more weird and temporary breaks when the dungeon or battle maps get redrawn.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Added a new preference (defaults to on) to turn sound playback off/on.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Added a new preference (defaults to off) to randomize the battlefield.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p><ul><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">◦</span>When battlefield randomization is turned ON, walls and hostile ground are added in random locations to the battle map.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">◦</span>Hostile ground has its usual effects, hurting both your party members as well as the monsters, if they are foolish enough to step on it.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">◦</span>Walls block movement as normal.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul></li></ul><p class="P2">Other Changes:</p><ul><li><p class="P7" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Renamed the Music pane in the Preferences to the Media pane.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P1"> </p><p class="P1">V1.1.0 (04/20/2012):</p><p class="P2">New Features:</p><ul><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Added descriptions for races, castes, faiths, and personalities to the character creation interface.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P2">Bug Fixes:</p><ul><li><p class="P8" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Removed a debugging print statement that was accidentally left in the 1.0.0 release.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P1"> </p><p class="P1">V1.0.0 (04/15/2012) <span class="T1">(changes from V1.0.0-RC1)</span>:</p><p class="P2">New Features:</p><ul><li><p class="P5" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Initial stable release.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul><p class="P2">Bug Fixes:</p><ul><li><p class="P9" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed a minor platform integration issue on OS X.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P9" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed a bug in the damage formula that made equipment too strong.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li><li><p class="P9" style="margin-left:0cm;"><span class="Bullet_20_Symbols" style="display:block;float:left;min-width:0cm">•</span>Fixed a double-count bug in attack and defense calculations.<span class="odfLiEnd"/> </p></li></ul></body></html>
